#My Dream School
##Classroom

A central space which is circular : tables are disposed in a circle, the center may be occupied by teacher or students for show, presentation and demonstration. Screen for vido-projection are in three or four directions around the circle, in a way that every one can see one opposite to him.

Around this central space are some alcoves, where students can work individually or in small groups.

The library shoudn't be separate from the class, but included : references books, on-line resources, films, e-books...

The furniture would be multi-touch table, that would be able to interact with small tablets (to be mobile inside and outside the class).
##Teachers

happy teachers make happy students : the teachers have more freedom to organize their time between preparation, marking-like periods, one-to-one, one-to group, or one to class. They may propose new units.
##Administration

Public system is too rigid, and I really don't like the idea to have a private school only for rich people.
An association may be a solution, like a "cooperative" : people put their resources together, whatever they may be : time, money, skills, materials,... to contribute to the community school.
Costs vary depending on the income and the amount of other contributions.
Sponsoring may be a good way to welcome poor kids.
##Pedagogy

More flexibility in time management

flip classroom, peer learning, mentoring, workshops in small groups, field trip or cultural / company excursion

regular participation of expert in the classroom cf. Microsoft program to send engineers in classes to teach computer science to inspire a new generation of computer science graduate.
##Curriculum

There would be an "a la carte" curriculum in a few large domains, which would be divided in credits.
Each students would be able to choose his/her preferred topics as long as they achieved a number of credits during the month/term.

Teachers are facilitators. Groups are constituted depending on interests and not age or friendships.
